feat: adds gemara lexicon terms to glossary (#88)
ossf/glossary: content/en/capabilities.md

title: Capabilities
status: Completed
category: concept
tags: ["fundamental", "gemara"]
---

a. A capability is a feature or function of a system; the primary component comprising an attack surface.

> b. Linux kernel uses capabilities to compartmentalize the UNIX root privilege into a set of non-overlapping sub privileges (called capabilities) that can be individually assigned where higher granularity than root/non-root is suitable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
b. In some systems, such as the Linux kernel, a capability is a non-overlapping subbset of UNIX root privilege that can be individually assigned where higher granularity than root/non-root is desired.
c. In some systems, such as seL4, a capability is a communicable, unforgeable token of authority.
```

You need to *define* the term. Also, capability-based security is a thing, and we shouldn't ignore a standard definition of the term.
